---
title:  "On small web"
tags: 
    web
    history
excerpt: I have some thoughts on the "small web."
lang: en
---
I have some thoughts on the "small web." It's a super simple idea of going back to the old style of using the internet.

The idea is to create your own site, fill it with your personal content, and be the only one who decides what is acceptable and what is not.

In this case, you are fully responsible for your content. There’s no big brother or censorship. There are no limits. You can say whatever you want, and that is so cool.

Probably, you are not a professional developer, and your skills are quite limited. Your site will definitely not be a masterpiece in terms of design, but it will be unique. It will represent your personality, your interests, your attitude to life, or whatever you want.

And yes, you could live without likes or comments. But I want to add a comments section to this page and see what will happen. Maybe nothing, he-he. The thing is, only people with great sympathy for you will write something on your site because it is detached from the noisy and toxic lanes of Twitter and Facebook. It’s like your little home.

But it is still accessible to the general public.

You could find friends in the small web. And yes, you should talk with them, decide what exactly you want to do together, and so on.

So, the small web is kind of back to the roots. It’s about the true internet. It’s about imagination, emotional satisfaction, sharing lovely stuff, and finding friends.

It means that you could really stop brainrotting and endless doomscrolling. You could live your best online life again!

Just check out this cute video and get some inspiration: [Basic Guide To The Personal Web](https://youtu.be/zswyWBtF-7Y?si=ZQNNlsOq9a6ncEv1)