---
title: This week
tags:
excerpt:
  At weekends watched the Tar
lang: en
---
## Tár
At the weekend, I watched TÁR, a psychological drama starring Cate Blanchett.

The main character is a highly successful conductor in a Berlin orchestra. She is a lesbian, has a lovely adopted daughter, and—she is a bitch. She gets what she wants in this cruel, male-dominated world, and so on.

Both the main character and the entire story feel exaggerated and somewhat oversimplified.

As I said, it’s a drama. Spoiler: In the end, Tár loses everything. My wife felt that the film presents an ethical dilemma quite well. The heroine does nothing explicitly wrong, yet her downfall seems unjustified. She becomes just a pawn in the hands of various powerful people—perhaps. There is no clear answer.

What I don’t like is the narrative of an individually "self-made" success. The film portrays her as having built herself up from nothing, heroically. That feels false and unconvincing. A story with this theme should provide more detail about the heroine’s childhood and family to realistically reveal her privileges. That would have made the emotional impact even stronger.

One more thing that disgusted me was the portrayal of underdeveloped, so-called "third-world" countries. After losing her top-ranked position, Tár goes to Thailand for work as a conductor. The film depicts this Asian country as an unquestionably worse place than Berlin, as if it were the outskirts of the world. Such positioning seems far from progressive, despite the movie’s overtly "in-your-face" progressiveness.

In the end, the film is worth watching and engaging—despite some of its narratives being problematic.




